Before we get into the nitty gritty around prototypes, I just thought, well, let's start with an
example, so you can start getting a sense as to why we need prototypes and a high level what they are.
So let's say we are a food restaurant and we want to display recipes for different types of food.
How do we go about doing this?
Well, let's start by creating a food object.
And I'm just going to create an object by object literal syntax, because it's the most simple, and
now I want to instantiate a object with certain values when I initialize it.
And we already seen how to do this at a previous one of the previous lectures.
So we're going to create our own init function that we can call.
And this is just going to sit the type of food to the top, we passed into the function, so nothing
to complicated they at all.
And then we want to create a recipe method.
Which, again, will be a function.
And in our case, we won't write our full recipes.
We just going to console.log this.
Is a.
The recipe for.
This time.
And this is fine, we've done our object.
So let's not say we've got doughnuts.
Is saying his type is not defined, oh, of course.
In this function, in this init function, we have to pass.
Typekit is an argument which in this case is going to be doughnuts, and it's going to set the time
on this food object as donuts snowy of initialized as food object, defining its type as donuts.
So when we execute this recipe function, I would expect the console.log to show this is a recipe for
donuts.
So let's see if that works.
Food and we execute recipe.
And remember to execute the function, you have to have parentheses and there you go.
This is a recipe for donuts.
Cool.
All is well and good.
But what happens now if we don't just have donuts?
What about if we want to create a whole list of different types of food?
What can we do?
And this is way object not to create comes into play.
And in the previous section, we went through object to create to, let's say, doughnuts equals object
dot to create an as its prototype.
We are now going to pass food.
Donate now, be initialized.
And to prove that it's all worked, doughnuts can access the recipe function.
And this is a recipe for donuts, and the power of this is that we can create different types of foods.
So let's create, I don't know, orange.
Object of Create also posted food.
As this prototype now, orange can be initialized.
And again, orange.
His access to the method.
And then you have it.
This is a recipe for donuts, and this orange one says this is a recipe for oranges.
I just want to ask you a question now when we use object to create what you think is happening.
Do you think it's creating a brand new food object or is it just referencing the original food object?
What do you think?
Well, let's see.
Let's just move our code around.
Let's create these two objects at the top.
The other thing I want to do is just delete these function calls quickly.
OK, so what we've done now is we've created a doughnut and an orange fly object that creates pulsing
in the food object as its prototype.
Now, what we want to do is I want to change this food object.
So if doughnuts in Orange, which is creating a copy of food, it would have created a copy at this
point.
Online 11 in line 12.
But now in line 14, we're going to amend it.
We need that food recipe.
And that's a main function.
It's console.log at an unlisted capital, it now not say you are now eating.
You are now eating.
This time, and because we want capitals, this is going to be the case.
So what do you think would happen?
Let's actually put these in its functions at the top as well.
What do you think would happen now when I go and execute that recipe function?
Is it going to console.log this original?
This is a recipe in small case or what is it going to go and console.log the uppercase you are now eating
this type of food?
What do you think will happen?
Well, I'll tell you that I expect this latest console.log to be cancelled out to the street and the
reason is that object to create doesn't create a new copy of an object at OIST references.
The overall prototype.
The original food object.
So when we go doughnuts and we got a recipe and we execute that function, there you go.
It's all in capitals.
You're now eating doughnuts and we can do the same with oranges.
Orange dot recipe.
You're not eating oranges.
So what is this telling us?
Take a step back, this is telling us that object not create creates a new into object for donuts and
for orange, and that the food object is only fallback.
If doughnut to orange don't have the property within themselves, they will fall back and look in the
food object.
But the important thing to remember is that doughnut and orange will only use the food object if they
cannot find the property within themselves.
Improve this team.
I just want to get rid of orange and all of this.
Let's just get rid of orange.
Orange, let's get rid of the food.
Let's get rid of Orange.
OK, so at this point, if I go and console, log out doughnuts.
You can see that doughnut heads the type of property of doughnuts.
And that's because of that init function within the food object where we assigned a property called
type to this object.
So you with me so far?
So now if.
It's just getting to that function call.
So remember what I said, I said that if the doughnut has its own property, it's not going to go and
look to the food object.
It's almost like the food object as a fallback.
So let's now put a type of property on the food object itself.
So food can have type and that can be anything.
Blah blah blah.
What do you think is going to happen now when I run the risk b function on donuts?
Do you think it's going to console.log?
This is a recipe for donuts or this is a recipe for blah blah blah.
Well, as we would expect, we would expect the doughnut to look at its own type property.
Doesn't need to resort as a full back to the food.
It's got its own time, so I'd expect the console to say this is a recipe for donuts.
Let's see if that's right recipe.
We consider this is a recipe for doughnuts.
So there you have it.
This is an introduction to Prototype's how they work.
You can kind of view them as just a fullback, and we can prove here that food is actually a prototype
of doughnuts.
How will JavaScript has given us the if prototype of made it straight out of the box?
So we need to do his console.log.
The X is our food object is proto type of.
And is it a prototype of doughnut?
There you have it.
It resorts to truth.
So that tells us that food is actually a prototype of doughnuts, which makes sense because that's what
the objeto create means it does when we pass food as its prototype.
But enough said let's get into prototypes in more detail.